Hello everybody and welcome back to this quick tip where we're gonna do a Boolean operation but this
time without using a modifier.
So we've got our boolean geometry at the moment that's cutting through our bishop.
Now the great thing about using a modifier is it's adjustable so if we wanted to quickly change this
and say well I want this to be a deeper NOTCH OR I want this to be at a different angle we're changing
it straight away so we could have it like that if we wanted to.
And then perhaps move it somewhere else or looks like we've put it inside itself.
There we go.
So we can have it cut off like that if we wanted to this loads and loads of options we could scale it
and have a bigger thing.
Who who cares what you want to do.
It gives us the flexibility of being able to edit it and of course we could.
Once we're happy with it.
Apply that modifier but that defeats the point of using a modifier in some circumstances because it
is adjustable.
That's the whole point of it.
So what else can we do.
Well let's just undo those funny funky changes and what I am going to do is I'm going to select both
the bishop and the notch at the same time but I'm going to make sure the bishop is the last to be selected
and therefore the active element and then good to go control and J and join them into one mesh object.
So they've gone solid again as you can see here.
And then what I can do is I can get rid of that boolean modifier and go into edit mode because what
we're about to do is done in edit mode.
So we have all of our geometry here.
And what we can do is whilst we've got the mesh data that we want to use to make the cuts selected we
can go to face and then go to intersect boolean and it will make the cut for us.
You can also use the shortcut keys control an F to bring up the face menu and go intersect boolean and
it will cut through.
Now what you could do if none of those were selected is this particular object here that's been joined
will have no linked vertices with the underlying mesh so we can press the L key and it will select all
the linked geometry.
And then we can go control F and intersects boolean and if that wasn't there at all we could add in
a new bits of mesh data scale it down to the appropriate size.
Gonna have to do are bits of scaling here can I go G Z lift it up let's scale it's in only on the X axis
to make it flat again let's rotate it slightly and of course this is not quite how it would be but
something along those lines then we can go control F, intersect boolean and slice through so its an incredibly
useful tool obviously by doing this we've created a lots of extra geometry just like applying the boolean
modifier would do as well and they wouldn't necessarily be ideal we might have to go back in here if
we had some horrible shading but because this is a rather flat shaded model anyway and it's highly faceted
these sharp angles are going to look fine if you're working on a high definition model or at least a
more high definition model and we had let's say smooth shading turned on you can see straight away you're
going to end up with some horrible horrible artifact thing around where this cuts has gone through the
model itself and this is something to bear in mind with anything that makes massive changes to your
geometry without you specifically controlling what's going on because of course you can make the notch
manually as well but this is a good start point and for what we're doing that's absolutely fine as
well.
Hope you find this quick tip helpful.
Now I've used this technique on one of your other models or perhaps even in the bishop that you're working
on.
Please share that work over in the discussions as well.
Look forward to seeing it and I'll see you all in the next lecture.